Docking station tests (#189)
Dasharo/docs: docs/unified-test-documentation/dasharo-compatibility/323-docking-station-detect.md

# Dasharo compatibility: Docking station detect

## Test cases

### Common

**Test setup**

1. Proceed with the
    [Generic test setup: firmware](../../generic-test-setup/#firmware).
1. Proceed with the
    [Generic test setup: OS installer](../../generic-test-setup/#os-installer).
1. Proceed with the
    [Generic test setup: OS installation](../../generic-test-setup/#os-installation).
1. Proceed with the
    [Generic test setup: OS boot from disk](../../generic-test-setup/#os-boot-from-disk).
1. The docking station connected to the USB-C port.

> ### DUD001.001 USB detection after coldboot (Ubuntu 22.04)

Reviewer: Incorrect test case name. In this should be smth like this: `Docking station detection after coldboot (Ubuntu 22.04)`

**Test description**

> This test aims to verify that the DUT properly detects USB device after

Reviewer: Test description should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

coldboot (realized by power supply cutting off then restoring back).
This test case may be re-done several times to specify the platform and
connection stability.

**Test configuration data**

1. `FIRMWARE` = coreboot
1. `OPERATING_SYSTEM` = Ubuntu 22.04

**Test setup**

1. Proceed with the [Common](#common) section.

**Test steps**

1. Cut the power off while DUT is turned on.
1. Restore power and power on the DUT.
1. Boot into the system.
1. Log into the system by using the proper login and password.
1. Open a terminal window and run the follwing command:

    ```bash
    lsusb
    ```

1. Note the results.

**Expected result**

After `lsusb` command the docking station entries should be displayed, but

> output can be diffrent depends on model of the docking station.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
output can be different depending on the model of the docking station.
```

Example entries signifing the docking station:

```bash
Bus 002 Device 010: Realtek Semiconductor Corp. RTL8153 Gigabit Ethernet Adapter
Bus 002 Device 009: Prolific Technology, Inc. USB SD Card Reader
Bus 002 Device 008: VIA Labs, Inc. USB3.0 Hub
```

> ### DUD002.001 USB detection after warmboot (Ubuntu 22.04)

Reviewer: Incorrect test case name. In this should be smth like this: `Docking station detection after warmboot (Ubuntu 22.04)`

**Test description**

> This test aims to verify that the DUT properly detects USB device after

Reviewer: Test description should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

warmboot (realized by device turning off then turning on). This test case
may be re-done several times to specify the platform and connection stability.

**Test configuration data**

1. `FIRMWARE` = coreboot
1. `OPERATING_SYSTEM` = Ubuntu 22.04

**Test setup**

1. Proceed with the [Common](#common) section.

**Test steps**

1. Power on the DUT.
1. Boot into the system.
1. Log into the system by using the proper login and password.
1. Open a terminal window and run the follwing command:

>     ```bash

Reviewer: Test steps should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

Author: no change

    lsusb
    ```

1. Note the results.

**Expected result**

> The `USB_STICK` is detected after warmboot.

Reviewer: Expected results should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

> ### DUD003.001 USB detection after reboot (Ubuntu 22.04)

Reviewer: Incorrect test case name. In this should be smth like this: `Docking station detection after reboot (Ubuntu 22.04)`

**Test description**

> This test aims to verify that the DUT properly detects USB device after system

Reviewer: Test description should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

reboot (performed by relevant command). This test case may be re-done
several times to specify the platform and connection stability.

**Test configuration data**

1. `FIRMWARE` = coreboot
1. `OPERATING_SYSTEM` = Ubuntu 22.04

**Test setup**

1. Proceed with the
    [Generic test setup: firmware](../../generic-test-setup/#firmware).

**Test steps**

1. Power on the DUT.
1. Boot into the system.
1. Log into the system by using the proper login and password.
1. Open a terminal window and run the follwing command:

    ```bash
    sudo reboot
    ```

1. Boot into the system.
1. Log into the system by using the proper login and password.
1. Open a terminal window and run the follwing command:

    ```bash

>     lsusb

Reviewer: Test steps should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.

Author: no change

    ```

1. Note the results.

**Expected result**

> The `USB_STICK` is detected after reboot.

Reviewer: Expected results should be improved. This test case does not test USB presence.
